---
tags:
- Outils Français
- Tech
- IA
title: La Polémique Wordpress Drama
author: Diane
description: 'Découvre La Polémique Wordpress Drama : outil français pour entrepreneurs,
  fonctionnalités et avis.'
pubDate: '2024-03-25'
imgUrl: ../../../../../assets/astro.jpeg
---

[Announcement of Reopening the Vault & We Need your Support NOW! - Announcements - Festinger Vault Community](https://meta.festingervault.com/t/announcement-of-reopening-the-vault-we-need-your-support-now/106047)
	**  
TL;DR:** I’m Martin, founder of **Festinger Vault**, a small, independent platform offering GPL-compliant WordPress resources to over 50,000 users worldwide, including nonprofits and individuals in need. And I NEED YOUR HELP!!

Automattic, the corporation behind WordPress, has launched aggressive legal actions to shut us down—freezing our accounts, blocking healthcare funds related to my muscular disease, and even attempting to seize my wheelchair-accessible vehicle and home. Despite **Automattic’s own CEO admitting our GPL compliance**, they continue this lawsuit to stifle competition, endangering not just our mission but the very principles of open-source.

The Amsterdam District Court recently found Automattic in preliminary violation of their **Duty of Truthfulness and Completeness** for withholding critical evidence. While the court ordered some assets to be unfrozen, Automattic has escalated legal proceedings to force us into a costly fight for survival.

**Why Your Support Matters** Our reopening in December will mark a new chapter for Festinger Vault, but I need your help to make it happen. Automattic’s efforts to suppress a GPL-compliant service sets a dangerous precedent for open-source software everywhere. Here’s how your support will help us defend Festinger Vault and uphold open-source principles:

1. **Fund Our Legal Defense** – Every donation will directly cover legal fees for the upcoming short hearing on November 27th and the substantial costs of the ground procedure Automattic has launched. This prolonged legal process is a significant part of their strategy, designed to stretch out proceedings and exhaust our resources. Please note that even though the Amsterdam Court ordered Automattic to compensate us for the legal costs that we incurred to lift the seizures on our assets, Automattic had, until the present date, refused to do so.
2. **Reopen Festinger Vault**—With your help, we’ll bring Festinger Vault back online by week 50, allowing our community of 50,000+ users, charities, and nonprofits to access the GPL software they depend on once again.
3. **Send a Message** – We can show that the open-source community won’t let corporations selectively enforce trademarks to suppress competition. Open source should represent accessibility and shared value, not corporate control.

Lastly, I’m excited to share that Festinger Vault will reopen by week 50 of 2024, between December 9 and 13! With your support, we are determined to reopen—free from Automattic-associated products and fully compliant. Stand with us against corporate power to keep open-source accessible to everyone. Every donation will directly cover legal costs, reopen our doors, and send a strong message: **open-source belongs to the community, not corporations**.

**Link to the Amsterdam Court’s Verdict of October 2, 2024:**  
[Read the full court decision here](https://uitspraken-rechtspraak-nl.translate.goog/details?id=ECLI%3ANL%3ARBAMS%3A2024%3A6398&_x_tr_sl=nl&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=nl&_x_tr_pto=wapp&_x_tr_hist=true).

**// END TL;DR**

---

**Our Mission and Background**  
Our mission to deliver a unique service—with automatic updates, bulk downloads, white label branding, free access to over 25.000 GPL-compliant themes and plugins for WP, and a thriving community of open-source developers—will continue stronger than ever. We’re implementing adjustments to protect our platform and community from inhuman future attacks, and we look forward to serving you again.

The name _Festinger Vault_ wasn’t chosen by accident; it has deep, personal significance for me. It’s a nod to the theory of cognitive dissonance developed by social psychologist Leon Festinger. This theory explains that when a conflict arises between one’s beliefs and actions, it creates discomfort that people naturally strive to resolve. This theory profoundly resonates with me.

Before founding Festinger Vault, I was a psychologist, working with patients from challenging backgrounds in health care. During the COVID-19 pandemic, my situation grew more complicated when my progressive muscular disease began limiting my mobility, ultimately making it impossible for me to continue working as a psychologist. This left me in a state of imbalance—a person with a social drive and sense of justice to contribute to society but physically limited in my options.

In this challenging period, Festinger Vault was born. For me, it became more than just a way to earn a living; it was a path to purpose, blending my belief in collaboration and open-source with my technical knowledge. Festinger Vault embodies this spirit by offering to share thousands of people GPL resources they need but might otherwise be unable to afford.


**Here’s What We’re Up Against:**  
Automattic, the multi-billion dollar corporation behind WordPress and WooCommerce, has launched a full-scale legal attack against Festinger Vault. They’ve obtained court orders to freeze our accounts, cut off access to essential healthcare funds, and even attempted to seize my wheelchair-accessible vehicle and adapted home — all without any prior communication or attempt to resolve the matter directly.

**Their accusation?** Trademark abuse—despite Automattic’s CEO publicly stating that our actions are “legal under the GPL.” and “We were able to use the trademark basically to shut them down.” (see video below around minute 40) These aggressive tactics have disrupted not only my life but also the lives of thousands of Festinger Vault users worldwide. By blocking access to GPL products, Automattic has affected nonprofits, small businesses, and individuals who rely on our services. I am proud that Festinger Vault supports several charities globally by providing free lifetime access to those in need. Because of Automattic’s actions, these users are now cut off from critical resources.

The recent court decision on October 2, 2024, in the District Court of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, sheds light on Automattic’s methods and misuse of legal measures. The court found indications of misconduct on Automattic’s part under their **Duty of Truthfulness** and **Duty of Completeness** (Article 21 Rv), concluding that Automattic had misrepresented facts by not disclosing a relevant interview with their CEO on September 29, 2024.

This interview, which the court reviewed in full only after the hearing, presented a stark contrast to the arguments Automattic made in court and their written responses. In the interview, Automattic’s CEO clearly stated that Festinger Vault’s actions are “not illegal” and are “legal under the GPL.” Notably, the CEO remarked, “We were able to use the trademark basically to shut them down,” indicating a selective use of trademark rights to stifle competition rather than protect intellectual property.

The court found it remarkable that Automattic had focused nearly half of its argument on alleged GPL violations, despite the CEO’s admission of Festinger Vault’s GPL compliance. They pursued an ex parte court order without prior warning or communication. The court recognized that the online community has criticized Automattic’s selective enforcement of trademark rights to suppress smaller competitors like WP Engine, another significant player Automattic has targeted in similar legal battles.

The court ruled that Automattic’s actions warranted the lifting of the freeze on my bank account, noting that the funds are vital for covering personal healthcare and necessary home adaptations. However, the freeze on my shared home ownership remains in place, as the court deferred a final decision on the trademark claim to an upcoming session. Given the uncertainties around the alleged damages and Automattic’s apparent misrepresentations, the court concluded that Automattic’s legal maneuvers constitute a preliminary violation of their Duty of Truthfulness and Duty of Completeness (Article 21 Rv).

**Automattic’s Tactics of Intimidation and Extortion:** Automattic has also attempted to intimidate me personally, using tactics similar to those they used against WP Engine. While I can’t comment fully on this, I plan to bring evidence of these intimidation attempts to light in our next court hearing.

**Our Path to Reopening and What We Need:** We have a crucial court hearing on November 27th, and with your support, we’re confident about a re-launch by mid-December. We’re proactively ensuring compliance with all requirements, including the complete exclusion of any products associated with Automattic, so our services align with the necessary guidelines. Our platform and plugin are fully prepared for a fresh start, and we look forward to reopening our doors.

## [](https://meta.festingervault.com/t/announcement-of-reopening-the-vault-we-need-your-support-now/106047#p-278058-please-donate-nowhttpssteunactienlfundraiserstand-with-festinger-vault-help-us-fight-for-open-source-freedom-43407-heart_eyes-5)[Please donate NOW!](https://steunactie.nl/fundraiser/stand-with-festinger-vault-help-us-fight-for-open-source-freedom/-43407) 

**This Is More Than Just a Legal Battle: It’s About Open-Source Principles and Human Impact.** This fight is about more than copyright and trademarks; it’s about whether a powerful corporation has the right to use its full force to undermine a small, independent business committed to open-source values. I founded Festinger Vault to make affordable, GPL-compliant resources available to everyone, especially those who can’t afford premium pricing. Automattic’s actions threaten this mission, putting the principles of open-source collaboration at risk.

**Why Your Support Matters** Our reopening in December will mark a new chapter for Festinger Vault, but I need your help to make it happen. Automattic’s efforts to suppress a GPL-compliant service sets a dangerous precedent for open-source software everywhere. Here’s how your support will help us defend Festinger Vault and uphold open-source principles:

1. **Fund Our Legal Defense** – Every donation will directly cover legal fees for the upcoming short hearing on November 27th and the substantial costs of the ground procedure Automattic has launched. This prolonged legal process is a significant part of their strategy, designed to stretch out proceedings and exhaust our resources. Please note that even though the Amsterdam Court ordered Automattic to compensate us for the legal costs that we incurred to lift the seizures on our assets, Automattic had, until the present date, refused to do so.
2. **Reopen Festinger Vault**—With your help, we’ll bring Festinger Vault back online by week 50, allowing our community of 50,000+ users, charities, and nonprofits to access the GPL software they depend on once again.
3. **Send a Message** – We can show that the open-source community won’t let corporations selectively enforce trademarks to suppress competition. Open source should represent accessibility and shared value, not corporate control.


**Join me in Protecting Open-Source for All** Festinger Vault. It may be a small business, but with your support, we can stand firm against this tech giant and fight for a future where open-source remains accessible to everyone. Every contribution—financial or by sharing our story—brings us one step closer to reopening our doors and sending a clear message: open-source is meant for everyone. Thank you very much!

[(9) Wordpress Open Source drama - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S9CGGtwmdeE)
[The WordPress Interview (We were both wrong) - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OUJgahHjAKU)
what's good nerds how's everything look and sound if you couldn't tell this is not my usual setup want to make sure everything is good before we get going howy everybody we have a guest here you might have heard of him and if you haven't you've probably still heard of the things he has done yes live and in person we're both in SF why not right hey thank you so much for doing this I really appreciate you hopping on last minute and everything like that so like it was awesome that you were down tocome through means a ton it's clear you want to be sure everybody actually understands what happened and I want to take the opportunity to chat with you and clarify any things that I might have gotten wrong as well as try to get some really solid answers to some of the questions that people have concerns about if yall want to follow me I'm photomat on Tumblr Twitter and my domain is M.T to check out my WordPress blog that just reminded me you own you own Tumblr don't you yeah we do love that so we got uh besides word price we got Tumblr pocketcast simple note beeper text day one uh we have a lot of other apps and then on WordPress we've got like uh WordPress W Commerce WordPress VIP which hosts like white house.gov uh what else uh and then a bunch of plugins like Sensei and other things that like on top of Wordpress good stuff I did not know it was that wide of a collection dang yeah actually it's um that's part of the reason WP Eng actually makes more money from WordPress than us WordPress is only about half of our business interesting I hadn't have thought about it that way well on that note I think the first question actually leans into this you are the sole owner of wordpress.org if I recall yep yep what is the relationship between wordpress.com wordpress.org and the WordPress foundation and you like can you give us an overview of how the structure here works it's a little complicated so we'll start there so uh when this by the way this all just started as like open source Rand no one knew what this was going to be big I was 19 years old so was 21 years ago so how it is currently set up and how this evolved is so there is a WordPress Foundation which is a nonprofit that was created long after automatic andwordpress.org um so what started first was WordPress and then wordpress.org website I just register that belongs to me um a few years later I started automatic uh as a for-profit uh originally the WordPress trademark and everything belonged just to automatic and also I did not you know control a majority of the shares or the board or anything like that so um automatic at investors and everything um uh years later I basically negotiated with all those to take the trademark out of automatic and move it into a nonprofitfoundation so we created a 513c um interesting the foundation uh to be approved by the IRS um does not the purpose of the foundation is not to develop WordPress code it is for education so that's why we do like word camps and educational things if you look at the finances of the foundation uh the actual Foundation has no employe or anything I think we got 23 Grand in donations last year um basically we spend a few grand on like Auditors and lawyers and stuff well at least we used to only have to spend a few grand wpjmight make us spend a lot more um and then we we regant all the rest of the notations out to things like uh black girls code or like you know different things to like you know get um yeah get more people involved with coding and education purposes it also has going to make this a little more complicated a for-profit subsidiary of the Foundation which runs all the word camps so there's these things called word camps they're Community organized um the big ones have thousands of people and there's smallones different cities with hundreds of people um you know as you know putting on an events like we can't ask volunteers to have like insurance for a 2,000 person event on their personal thing and also because people sponsor this uh it can't be when the the sponsorship rules for nonprofits are actually very strict so they couldn't say in their Booth like we're the number one host or fastest or something so that's why we created this for-profit subsidiary kind of like there's a Mozilla foundation and a MozillaCorporation or like open AI well that's a whole another that's a whole another can of worms but um so that's called the WordPress uh I think community service or something so that's a for-profit that actually if you look at it I think has like 5 million a year running through it but it's just run break even for the events um so WordPress Foundation holds the trademark it has two licenses that's given out a uh commercial license to automatic uh which uses it to run wordpress.com automatic can also sublicense that trademark to others um for a fee so the WordPress trademark although owned by wordpress.org and the WordPress or sorry word by the WordPress Foundation the WordPress trademark has been licensed to wordpress.com and automatic which then does all further licensing so all the commercial stuff automatic has a license for then I Matt Mullen have a license to run wordpress.org which is um if you look at what wordpress.org is actually huge so we provide you know hosting for the 60,000 plugins and themes we provide the update servers um we had do open firste so we actually uh got open firste from the Creative Commons that creative commment search we now host and run all that so all Creative Commons search things uh that's all run through there forums slack Channel for 49,000 people there's a pro slack version so like we do a lot on WordPress AO work and uh yeah that's me so those are the two soI've kind of that like license run wordpress.org and then automatic as commercial license yeah I think the the big point of clarification here that is actually like helpful for me as well is that wordpress.org is not part of the WordPress Foundation that is yours and all commercial licensing for WordPress is not done through the nonprofit the only commercial license is or automatics and then that is sulic to others we could not get at wordpress.org being part of the foundation approved by the IRS okay right because when you think about it wordpress.org benefits a lot of companies not just automatic but like every other host that's built on WordPress um so uh because nonprofits are like a tax thing they're like oh well wouldn't you just put everything into this taxfree thing and then you get all this R&D for free so that's why it has to be separate interesting H so what does the like licensing agreement look like between automatic and the WordPress Foundation like isthere like an on the books like Financial exchange for that what's the it's an exclusive because automatic owned the trademark yes so basically it put the it gave the trademark away and it kept the commercial rights so remember it was I had to negotiate all this because at the time I was 20s something I did not uh yet control automatic and do all that sort of stuff so very interesting I that that's very context to have that the license started at automatic the WordPress Foundation was formed to be the owner of the thetrademark and then the license for commercial stuff was kept there and the can I say the reason I did this is because again 20-some I was like well what if someone buys automatic or the investors kick me out or something like that like if automatic goes evil how do I create a balance check and balance so by the way I or automatic could lose the license uh the the licenses if the WordPress Foundation determines we are not good stewards of the WordPress trademark and um the foundation has three board members I'm one of them soif two of the three decide that automatic or me are not good stewards of the trademarks we would lose our license we'd have to rename wordpress.org or wordpress.com very good to know that's who are the other two board members if you don't mind us asking uh Mark gosh and shell Farley very good context to have I how do I want to dive into this next part so the boundaries are much clearer now that was one of like the most complex things as you said the relationship between all of these things is complex the WordPress Foundation couldtake away Steward ship of the trademark and then there's also the problem of the government where if the trademark is not being meaningfully enforced then it can become a generic term which could then cause you to lose it regardless I know this is why a lot of companies like Nintendo are as harsh as they are about their trademarks because the risk of losing it is great enough that they will squash anything that might hurt it there on the other hand there are a ton of places where the WordPress trademark is being used in ways that are on theline like WP graphql which is an open source project or the WordPress pages and hosting like offerings on GoDaddy I'm curious where you mentally draw the line for at what point is it worth taking action for something using w P or the WordPress like name yeah so when it's confusing to Consumers so no one goes to WP graphql and thinks it's us I honestly thought it was part of the WordPress core initially like the WordPress like core set of like things that are maintained in the WordPress project and was surprised tolearn that it wasn't it might become we have things called canonical plugins or Community plugins which are kind of like official ones it might be someday um but right now it's not uh so yeah when it's confusing the marketplace so I can't tell you how many times I get support requests for WP engine like people contact me because their site is down we have lots of examples of people posting the Reddit like hey my WordPress engine is down and in fact all the people mad at us for cutting WP engine off why arethey mad at us they've never paid us a dollar we're pres over a dollar they PID Eng they're mad because that change hurts the users more than it hurts the platform like the and that's one of the things I wanted to talk about is that that move assuming the best possible faith and in from you with the goal being to not give WordPress or to not give things from WordPress to WP engine for free when they are in your belief not contributing fairly back if the goal was to alert their customers of the severity of this wouldhaving the cut off date initially not have been the exact same objective completed without having the immediate potential harm so WP engine knew this was going to happen cuz I told them when they decided not to negotiate or do any engagement for trademark license um that they were going to be banned from all word camps and community events banned from wordpress.org so they knew this was going to happen it's their responsibility to communicate to their customers and I think it's you know I I don't know I hate to like be in the Weeds on it but do you have records of those Communications you be down to share later off stream so I can confirm or deny like that these actually happened off the Record like I won't share the actual Communications just my yes or no if I feel like this is a fair representation of the communication you had what I can share with you is the term sheet that they got on Fridaymorning um which spells out them being banned from Community stuff and also that they had the option to either pay automatic for a trading license or donate in kind hours so they could so that was yesterday was that or the Friday before the Friday before okay so and by the way this was the result of more than like a year and a half of negotiations um I can find the exact dates we've had other proposals to them in the past they've had many many opportunities to do this um kind of came to a head at the Work Camp but they'vejust been delaying for so long we've been trying to do a deal forever you know that's why I've had so many meetings and spent so much time with Heather and Lee and other people so yeah I if there were records of any of these specific conversations happening I know that a lot of people feel as though this was kind of sudden and optically externally it absolutely was sudden in particular the decision to ban them from doing updates on wordpress.org was it felt retaliatory to the like or to the legal action that was taken in fact you've even communicated about it as though it was retaliatory to the legal action taken saying that if they are suing you you don't want to work with them there was no indication until this moment that this was a thing that they specifically were told would happen they have insisted on most of these meetings being in person or called so but I do have the record of this term sheet and I'm happy to show it to you right after the stream and everything soawesome really appreciate that just to be as clear as possible with these things I can show you the email they got and who it went to it went to Lee and Heather and everything yeah just the date the time it was sent who it was sent to and what the contents were roughly is enough for us to to have that confirmed but I know just like from going through the respons other interviews uh no we can do it after us no worries there but yeah I just I I think the timelines for these things are really important and having confirmationthat these my for this it feels like that the reason a thing happened is a thing that has been shifting throughout this whole ordeal where the the reason that the wordpress.org access for plugins and updates was cut off was originally because they took legal action and you wanted to not be doing business with somebody taking action against you now it is that this was originally communicated as part of the negotiations that fell through and these shifts are a thing that have people struggling to trust what you have to say and I justwant to make sure that we can identify the the core path from start to finish of how we get to these individual things they also they cherry-pick the text messages to publish I would love for them to publish everything I can actually let me show you my text to Heather um months ago saying you're violating the trademark appreciate this by the way it's good to have the like actual records and again part of why it's nice to be able do these things in person it makes all of this chaos much easier okay July 17th it pains me everytime I get your customers reaching out to me because they are confused by use of the WordPress trademark and brand it's really d in the ecosystem July 17th 9:20 a.m. by the way you can also see messages like I invited her my 40th birthday party I've had I thought I had a good relationship with her welcome back I hope sabatical was good like I mean I'm not going to read all these messages because I mean they chose to publish without my permission but I'm going to read my message there so hopefully that'shelpful okay that in July it was absolutely communicated that Matt was disappointed in w engines branding in the confusion it was causing for people in the WordPress community and WordPress users that I can absolutely see was communicated in July the thing that I don't see is the direct link to the potential consequences of this not changing and if that could be established at an earlier point that would be really really helpful 10:23 a.m. this is the term sheet it's a one pager it's very simple and see trademark license agreement they can pay a royalty fee or commit 8% in the form of salaries to employees working on WordPress core features and functionality prohibit on forking and Community I'll be able to participate in work camps and everything like that so um and then term termination Etc so this is a one pager it's very very is there anywhere in this that indicates that wordpress.org access and the ability for WP engine customers to update their things the way that they have been this whole time was at risk because that's a really important detail that I'm not seeing communicated it's I agree it could be better in that term it I want clear this could be better this is uh I could not have possibly interpreted this this way so can I read this bullet point for btim is that okay um I'm planning to publish this so uh yeah go ahead and read it so this is point four which is the the closest thing in here to indicating thepotential issue it says the forking thing okay so so I'll read point three and four which are part of this agreement point three is prohibition on forking WP engine will cease and desist from forking or modifying any of automatics W wooc Comm merces or its affiliate software including but not limited to plugins and extensions in a manner that disrupts any partnership between automatic and its commercial Partners this is in uh reference to the stripe stuff for context yeah that's that's other thing is this not just aWordPress trademark they're also violating the woocommerce trademarks so to finish the B point so I have the whole thing for btim this is after the words commercial partners for example WP engine will refrain from changing attribution codes included in any software by automatic this is because previously the I believe it was the woocommerce stripe plugin the woocommerce or the woocommerce stripe plugin had a indicating or a field indicating who it was coming through which is something that stripe uses toattribute what plugins are causing people to use stripe and they pay a fee to the people who are who that code belongs to it's almost like an affiliate code in order to allow for Stripes partners that are embedding it in things like woocommerce to pay them back directly and one of the things wpn did was change the like uh the ID that indicated who the affiliate was that was the partner that made that so that anybody who is using the same plugin on WP engine the affiliate fees were going to WP engine and not to woocommerce orautomatic is that a fair representation yes awesome so now for point four from here Community this is the point that is the closest thing in here to indicating that wordpress.org access would be restricted for WP engine WP engine will be able to participate in word camps and it starts with community so point4 Community WP engine will be able to participate in word camps in WordPress community events if you choose the royalty fee we will attribute a portion of automatics five for the future contributions to WP engine in a publicway so the community understands your commitment to the long-term flourishing of Wordpress do you understand how there is nothing here that indicates that wordpress.org cut off I think that's a fair criticism so that's a fair criticism Okay so I I will say that they understood and hopefully now they really understand that's why we've given them until Monday night to uh fix it all up so can we agree that initially it should have been an announcement that that would happen on Monday night um that it would have it wouldhave given it it would have achieved the same goal and caused less immediate damage and most importantly burned less immediate trust with you yeah that's um that's fair keeping the mic a little bit closer sure sure sure yeah um you know the other thing that they haven't really talked about that I don't think people appreciate is they can't log into wordpress.org anymore so they need to Now find some way to host and distribute all their plugins so they haven't talked about that um their plugins everything's basically Frozen so that's uh they have to figure that out there's 2 million installs of advanced custom Fields um they need to figure out how to get all those people updated using their own update servers and everything so and you understand that like the the immediate group that is harmed by this isn't WP engin so much as their customers becausethey're just as screwed if but they can't even do anything about it now they're stuck waiting on WP engine to make these changes it's the people who spend half a billion a year with WP engine yes I thought their revenue was 400 million a year but that's all of them like that's a lot of people who have like a $5 a month site that they're hosting for their barber shop that's now potentially insecure that's people who are hosting websites for a retirement home that's people who are I don't knowexactly they can publish a revenue if they want if they want to correct that my estimate you know with a 1.5 million sites they claim to host is half billion so that's just me guessing so that's that's my opinion they can correct that if they want to if it's 400 and they were only doing 40 hours per week I think that's still bad if it's 100 and they were only do four hours a week that's pretty bad so one more point I think is important regarding the agreement there it was very clear thattheir options were either to contribute 8% of their revenue or 8% of their equivalent of Revenue in engineering time spent and it said or any combination or any combination yes thank you for the clarification there can we agree that a sudden 8% cut in your business's Top Line is something that takes a lot of time to plan around and potentially eat so this was based on an analysis of their business which I can't comment on because I think it' be covered by NDA and other things but I think it's safe to Guess that they wouldstill be profitable to the tune of tens of millions of dollars free cash flow per year and you understand business so you know what that means even with this licensing fee so yes would they be less profitable yes but they would still be very profitable more than us even then we plow Bas we're not we're kind of break even right now we plow everything back into development everything back into open source so like on the topic of contributing back I I have two directions I want to go with the contributing backp pars I thinkthey're important the first is what qualifies as contribution and the second is at what point is WordPress not in need of additional contributors so I want to start with the first one which is the ecosystem around WordPress I brought up WP graph Q earlier do graphql is a plugin that is used by a lot of people I didn't find an easy way to I didn't take the time to look into the numbers but I know it's a well regged and well supported like part portion of the ecosystem I know Gatsby was reallyinvolved with it too which is a framework that I'm deep in the lore of as a JavaScript in react person specifically I know that when I looked at the or commit charts the person who wrote over 90% of the code for WP graphql is an engineer at WP engine I think they acquired it yes I don't know what the order of events was in terms of that individual working at WP engine but the majority of the continued support and maintenance of that plugin is coming from WP engine we can agree on that right yes awesome Ididn't look to see if there were twoo many other examples but I wanted to start with this one in particular does contributing to the ecosystem outside of repos that are on like the WordPress or WordPress Community projects in your mind count as contributing towards the WordPress Community as a WordPress developer okay you just made that a nuanced question so I'll say we have this program fire for the future and what would count is who owns the plugin MH so yes we make the jetpack plugin I think it benefits WordPress a ton wedon't count that as a five for the future contribution because we own it so if WP engine wanted to make WP graphql owned by the community then yes their contribution is to account they could make it a community plugin right if they own it and they use it to promote their paid Services then it's part of the ecosystem but it's also just promotional so they could uh by the way they could also donate like something like Advanced custom Fields would be awesome for core um they could contribute that automatichas taken lots of features we developed in Jetpack and wordpress.com taken it out of our paid stuff and then put it into core so it belongs to everyone do you have any examples of WP graphql being used to promote WP engine cuz I'm looking now at like the gra the GitHub repo and their website and they put Gatsby before WP engine which is the only instance of WP engine on the GitHub page is special thanks to Gatsby a dead framework and WP engine for allocating development resources to push the project forward other than that there isno indication that WP engine is being used to benefit or that wpq is being used to drive customers to WP engine directly and on their website it is similar there's a impossible to read because their CSS stocks uh tiny WP engine Link at the bottom that is almost the same blue as the page so literally can't even read the promotion um okay so automatic makes simple notes it's free for use should that be counted as a community contribution on wordpress.org because it's free I mean companies can give away free things to improve their image for marketing for other reasons um it kind of bures that image so but should simple note count as a community contribution not familiar with simple note it's a Notes app oh it's free to use I think if that Notes app is built specifically around the WordPress architecture and ecosystem and is used by a significant number of Wordpress developers and not used people who aren't using Wordpress where it's like if there's like a venddiagram here all WP graphql users are graphql us arep users yes they are all using Wordpress how about the jetpack plugin yes jet pack plugin I think I would be totally okay with being included as part of Wordpress core and Counting as one of those contributions and the wo Commerce plugin can the woce the wo Commerce plugin yeah I would say so too okay if we were to count those things yeah our contributions would not be 4,000 hours a week it would be tens of thousands of hours per week I'm okay I don't thinkthe beud but I don't think like the dick waving contest of how many hours a week is particularly meaningful I can go into why in a bit but I want to focus in on this point of there are lots of ways to contribute to an ecosystem and I think we've kind of arbitrarily defined the lines at which these definitions exist to the to the point of you to your own detriment to an extent too because I think the jet pack plug-in is something that I would consider contribution to the WordPress ecosystem and I wouldconsider that within the hours that you're counting I think that's totally fair I would draw this line in a different place so let's call that the Theo standard yeah uh so you said they have one engineer on WP graphql two Engineers but the main engineer that contributed over 90% of the code is a WP engine employee and then number four who was the second most active over the last month but the fourth highest contributor of all time they are also a WP engine so let's say now under the Theo standardyes they're contributing 120 hours a week instead of 40 um do you feel like that is fair for half a billion a year roughly depends on what they're spending their money on I don't like to compare in these ways like I don't look at the percentage of how much money a company makes yeah against how much time they're spending on open source stuff I want to kill these blanket statements of they don't contribute any to the WordPress community so let's say automatic on your standard is nowcontributing 8 to 15,000 hours per week yes I I would be surprised if automatic was contributing less than like 20 to 30% of its resources revenue and everything else towards WordPress I would be surprised if it wasn't in the same sense that like versel for example I would expect that they're contributing probably 20 to 30% if not more of their efforts into nextjs so just to be clear I don't agree with your standard but under a Theo standard we're doing 20 to 30% I think that's good and we askedthem to do eight I don't think the amount that you put in like if I was to go run 100 miles I can't then demand everybody else runs 10 miles just because I go really far doesn't mean I can set these demands and expectations outside of what I have done especially in an instance where this is an open- Source Community especially when there is no standard set by any others like are there any other companies that are contributing 8% of the revenue to Wordpress right now easily yeah so but okay if Lee andHeather want to negotiate these contributions being recognized pick up the phone call me happy to talk so sure um happy to negotiate with that with them but currently under the current standards published with fire for the future it only counts if it belongs to the community to the comments so it needs to be a community Plugin or a non-commercial plugin so commercial plugins are not counted so what companies are currently meeting this either the five % for five for the future or ideally if there are any the 8% for the trademark negotiation thatyou showed me um H so all the five for the future stuff is public I would say one company that was quite impressive is yast um I don't know their exact percentage so I don't want to speak to exactly but they were pretty amazing for how they would actually do like Community Days so like the whole company would get together and do contributions um there I just published there's a an Neil at multi dos uh said hey I realized we're not contributing enough and he made a public commitment try to get them to 5% so that's awesomeand yes you can't do it overnight um they could write a check overnight they have the money in the bank um or they could hire the people it take a little longer happy to switch that over time but um yeah you can aim for it by the way five for the future is not requirement it's just aspirational you know and it's self-reported it's not like we're even auditing this so it's just what they are reporting their own contribution so they get to choose by the way their hours each individual profile has to set theirhours I think the thing that's hard for me is there is no precedent for this anywhere else in the open source world that I know of or can think of I'm curious if is this a thing you've seen other communities do or try and have success with enforcing WordPress is extraordinarily unique in the open source world so you know the fact that we have grown so much there's been so many uccessful businesses created uh without the license changing or any of the bad stuff that normally happens the commercial commercially successful opensource projects many would argue this is the bad thing starting to happen in 21 years yes I've never had a problem like this with another host I don't expect it with and you ask I don't expect it with anyone else and you ask like what about these other people um I I've emailed with the other CEOs I've good relationships I am not aware of anything else as a greges if you want to send me some examples I'm happy to check it out but like what is the egregious nature because it seems like there's a couple differentthings floating around here there is the confusion of WP engine users and thinking it as part of like WordPress and it's not there is the amount of money that they are making relative to the amount of time they are contributing and there is the expectation of them paying this 8% trademark fee yeah so and what's a moral issue versus a legal issue yeah so I think the the contributing is it's a moral issue right right so you're right there's no law that says this there's nothing um the legal issue is the trademark and it'sthe WordPress trademark and the woomer trademark which by the way belongs 100% automatic the thing that people feel is that your strict enforcement of the the moral argument is being done through this more legal argument it's almost like it almost feels a bit retaliatory I actually really felt that when I was watching the interview with primagen where it felt like you're I I have the exact quote actually that I put in my notes if I can find it really quick it was um I mean yes I mean this is my life's work they they they're a privateEquity Firm they bought into this a few years ago they're going to be out in a few years this is what I'm doing the rest of my life so the exact quote was there's a law about trademark so that is the law that we are using to ask them to get back is that a fair representation of your stance on this um was it out Kapone who went to jail for tax evasion sometimes you have to use the laws available to you to get someone for their bad behavior so the concern people have is that the law you were using herecould also be used to hurt a lot of players that we would both agree are absolutely without any question goodfaith players in the space the violations you are going after them for are things that a lot of other companies are likely more or less egregiously doing I've seen plenty that are more plenty that or less but there's a lot of places the WordPress name comes up that are not officially WordPress oh K wanted to come say hi hello is this miles or this is Murphy Murphy Murphy um sorry I got a little distracted thereno worries um you T said earlier about trademark law if you don't defend it you lose it but for 21 years have you had to defend it before yes oh um and the other thing is what people might know not know about trademark law it's kind of the legal threshold for confusion is 15% so that's just one and six it's not saying everyone confuses WordPress engine WP engine it's one and six um we did you know part of why we feel like we have a really strong legal case is they did like a survey a panel and stuff likethat we found 27% of people were confused interesting so if they were paying the license if they're paying the trademark fee would the confusion be okay yeah they'd be paying for it okay so and there's other host I mentioned new full digital which is a large by the way private Equity owned company they they have a trademark deal so um there are precedents for this in the market and I hope to do more of these in the future so I yes would I like to do more of these absolutely so we use it to fund more WordPress to tobe very clear just like draw this line the confusion is okay if they are paying for the trademark and the random support requests you get the people who are confused like your mother that cwp engine and assume that is an official WordPress thing that that becomes okay by paying for the trademark I I don't know if I'd agree with the phrasing the confusion is okay yeah that they would have the right to use a trademark in a commercial way if they were paying for it so that's all we're asking is for acommercial license there's lots of ways they can use a WordPress trademark and many people do like WP graphql totally fine with you know I don't think that's confusing to customers or anything um I did the example on their homepage and anyone can do this so go to WP engine.com by the way please visit their page um you know do command F mhm for WordPress yep search for WordPress how times do it come up I think it was over 16 56 on the homepage yeah 56 on the homepage uh or at least when I did it earlier today um search for engine right so what's the biggest part of their their brand name it's the wp engine right is the 31 and 26 for engine they might have changed it they've been they've been by the way they can archive.org it they've been changing their web page a ton let me see why cuz you're you're also using is that Safari uh no I'm using Arc AR yep I'm going to go back to June which I think is relatively safe well let me just show you what I did so you can see it cool just quickly confirming the numbers when I did it I oh others are getting 56 interesting okay okay look I just got 56 take a look at this all those are saying 56 in chat so yep checks out I don't know why it was it might have been because I was on a smaller screen size I zoom ineverything a ton on my computer an engine so it was 14 this morning right now I'm getting 26 so but you know yeah uh that's fair yeah so when it was 14 I made the point that it was 4X so they're mentioning WordPress four times more than engine on their site and look at this we power the freedom to create on WordPress most Tres WordPress hosting so most trusted WordPress platform by the way they even have a plan name called core WordPress how confusing is that like they're selling core WordPress Idon't think that's that confusing it's if the the platform is a WordPress host and they call something core WordPress I personally don't find that confusing like when I I I come from like the video G you're part of a pretty smart probably you know 85% when I was 15 years old and I was buying server host for Minecraft when I bought the Minecraft core or uh there's a literally Plan called like core Minecraft I specifically remember I try remember what host it was on but I never in my wildest dreams thought thatthis was an official thing that was being run by Mojang I personally find this argument really strange that said we have a whole live audience here I'm down to pull them quick CU I'm curious what the general audience feel particularly people in the WordPress community so in WordPress we talk about core WordPress as kind of the the core open source software a lot so um but yeah let's see the poll this is kind of fun I like that we're doing this live by the way thank you of course happy to do this live andhave people in their thoughts and thank you to Murphy for coming and uh comforting me yes and Buddy worst possible positioning my guy you just pulled Focus Murphy oh that's amazing hopefully it refocuses uh yeah it's refocusing at least on you um people are saying the core WordPress plan name is confusing you got 60% saying it's confusing cool so I'll cave on that point happy to do a poll and see how they feel I personally didn't find it confusing but yeah teach their own that said this does lead us into finwe're finally getting to my second question here which which is regarding the many hosts that support WordPress something that feels particularly weird here we can agree that there are businesses that are making more money hosting WordPress servers than WP engine like GoDaddy probably makes more money off of Wordpress customers if I had a guess they are right now the biggest in the world so from my numbers researching because GoDaddy I think has more sites but they charge a lot less per customer they made $3.8 billion in 2021yeah if we're going by the internet split averages 43% of websites of Wordpress if I recall around that 40 to 50 yeah assuming 30% of that number it's still twice the amount of money that WP engine is making um I mean godaddy's public so we can actually look this up yes my understanding is they host like or they they register like tens of millions of domains the largest domain register in the world so they have a huge business there huge SSL business they do a lot of non-wordpress Hosting so they have like website buildere-commerce and everything like that so um I don't know if they break out publicly how much they make from hosting but let's just say just take their hosting cost and then you could probably apply a 43% to that um I'll re it would you be surprised if GoDaddy was baking as much if not more off of Wordpress customers than WP engine was so the funny thing is we have had beef with GoDaddy in the past when Lee whitlinger was on their board no see some themes we have now come to a I think a good relationshipwith GoDaddy in fact I emailed their whole team yesterday a very nice email saying like Hey we're good I just I don't want them to get freaked out so um so so yes do they do they make a lot yes do they give back more than WP engine yes are they doing anything that's as confusing with the trademark not to my knowledge I've never gotten any support emails about GoDaddy so this is the my mom doesn't think GoDaddy is us so so godet is a pretty unique brand time for the Sinker and the Hook Line and Sinkeris it fair to say that WP engine is being penalized for betting on WordPress more heavily than the other providers that we're talking about I don't know if I agree with that framing yeah so have they are they being penalized for for focusing their efforts on WordPress instead of other Solutions well to be clear from a legal point of view they're being penalized for violating the trademark so that is where believe our legal standing but we already had the quote from before of you using the law as a method of enforcingwhat you believe to be like unfair things that they are doing and on top of that a lot of the same trademark violations could be issued against a company like GoDaddy and this is one of the first if not the first times this being enforced in this way it is absolutely retaliatory so in 21 years how do you want to know how every other enforcement has gone it's a conversation it's a single email it's a picking up the phone people change what they do or they do a deal um this is the only time um I'm aware of no we've done otherseason assist so I will say we have done taken other things down um we actually just did a pretty successful one against uh is it called festinger do you know about this no oh it's pretty there was a site that what they did is they uh took every single WordPress plugin in the world and all the the pro versions and they n them and they uh they were just selling it all for like 200 bucks a year could get like all every single pro version in the world and uh again not illegal so legal under the GPL but theyweren't changing the names so they were selling their customers Pro plugins with the licensing stuff nled out so we were able to use the trademark basically to shut them down um so that's that just happened in the last few weeks I think so that that's another example um yeah so there has never been an instance of a how it this so this is the first CN I think we published and if you read the CND it says exactly what our claims are so and um you know by the way they haven't filed a lawsuit their CD was basicallylike censorship they're like stop saying mean things about me and take all your posts and tweets down which is kind of L uh ours says you're violating our trademark so uh these haven't yet become lawsuits or legal cases um but they have done the preservation request and everything which is a huge pain in the but if you're familiar with all that so yeah I will say that of all of the cease ands I've had to file which I've had to do most of them are not a trademark violation they are egregious things likeif they are perceiving this as an unfair attack on them which I can understand understand why they would filing a CN to emphasize that we are covering our tracks and plan to potentially enforce like our legal right to defend ourselves and protect ourselves from potential damages from these misleading claims that is absolutely a thing that exists in the world I understand that it is not as clear-cut as a trademark violation case but you can absolutely file a valid season desist that is because somebody is saying egregious things about you andyour business that is totally fair fine and how the legal system works in the United States and there's free speech laws as well first amendment so if they believe anything I have said or published publicly is not under my first amendment rights please sue me make a lawsuit they haven't so do that but the first step is to do something like a cease and deist because ideally you would stop they would pay everything's done but that is from some of the texts that they received I can understand why they would feel as thoughyou are to damage their reputation as part of a business negotiation practice and that is absolutely something that can go to court and they should you know and they're again Silver Lake is $102 billion on the management they're very familiar with using legal bullying against people which they were attempting to do against me I am glad to be you know fortunate with automatic and other things to be able to defend against this and so I'm fighting them yeah I'm sure you know if I wasn't if automatic wasn't as good a bit as orsomething yeah we just crumple under this that's what they do they bully so to go back to the point I was trying to make with the focusing in on WordPress there's a lot of companies that focus in on Technologies around them in the space like I have a thing called upload thing which is a better way to do file uploads and like object or storage management stuff for people who agree S3 is agre just and obnoxious and we like our whole branding was the best file uploader for nextjs and it launched the same day that versellaunched versel blob which was storage product and we had more mpm installs for quite a while we were winning for a bit and this actually strengthened our relationship with versel and despite like using the nextjs trademark all over our products that has done nothing but build a stronger relationship between us because it is seen as us promoting nextjs as much as it is seen as us being part of the xjs ecosystem and this is great example of trademark law so best uploader for nextjs I'm not a lawyer but I thinkthat's fair mhm if you called it nextjs uploader that would probably not be fair there's a plugin named next off that makes a lot of money in sponsorships from companies that are competing with for sale in many ways that they've never cared about there's a lot of other plugins like next UI which is a company that is going that is taking a lot of investment money and growing very quickly right now nobody cares it's so that's up to the trademark holder like I I don't own the next trademark yes sothey can we agree that it is unusual in the open source space for things that are published on GitHub open source licensed even if they are 30% plus of the company's money is spent on like furthering this thing that it is incredibly unusual and unexpected in the open source space for enforcement like this to occur enforcement like what you were describing earlier with the plugins absolutely makes sense that I can fully get behind but this type of enforcement as a method to take a percentage of a business's revenue for using your opensource tool is for using the trademark not for using the open source tool they're free to run WordPress it's all the GPL license so we're not saying they can't run WordPress they can host their by the way they can host their own copy of wordpress.org everything on there's GPL but we agreed that if they were contributing enough to Wordpress like the repos on GitHub that you wouldn't be trying to enforce this trademark by the way I don't have to offer them that option I know so I could have just saidyou have to pay us or else yeah so I gave them the option I don't know because I'm nice or because I believe in open source but like I don't have to do that they are violating the commercial trademark that's the only thing and I think we got a like a straight answer is there any other company paying the 8% of their revenue fee for the trademark right now this is all covered by amas and stuff but there are other companies whether or not there is a company that is paying 8% of their revenue is not NDAthe existence of a company or more that is doing that should not reasonably be covered under an NDA that I could that I've ever read um so if that's what you're trying to box me into saying no there is no one else paying 8% okay so yes uh are there other people paying things I think are fair yes yes so and also to be fair WP engine may have negotiated the rate down to something that you could have agree to would you have been potentially down via negotiations to lower the rate totally yes okay so both sides whatever I dothink it is fair to note that there is no other company paying 8% of their revenue to Wordpress for a trademark license and you know what's funny now is they can sign by the way they can make this all go away by doing a license um interesting question is whether now after all the terrible stuff they said about me smearing my name the sort of dark PR cat tactics are you know maybe more than 8% is is what we'd agree to now stop digging man I'm trying to help you like make things clear and dig out and you're we need to stop going deeperI'm not digging they have taken my life's work you know I've spent 21 years on WordPress I plan to spend the rest of my life on it they've come in private Equity they've you know screwed up our community they've taken Revenue they give nothing back like so I feel strongly about this it's true it's true you can I'm getting worked up now I will say specifically that we have described instances where the general Community is benefiting from WP engine at the very least through WP graphql I didn't takethe time to look into more examples because I figured having one concrete example to push back on that they contribute nothing thing was enough I I never said nothing I said 40 hours and now under Theo standard it's 120 hours so so you just said contributing nothing uh it might have been like just speaking saying it quick but you did literally just say they contribute nothing to the community okay so let me correct that this okay so contributing very little okay 120 hours per week under Theo standard 40 hours aweek on the WordPress awor standard okay so the other thing so thank you for correcting me yes I want to go down the private Equity path but I want to finish up the contribution path with one more point that I consider important which is is there a point at which there are enough people contributing to Wordpress open source projects that are part of the WordPress like Community repos and whatnot where more people contributing would hurt like The tooo Many Cooks in the kitchen oh that's a good question umbefore I answer it I did want to say thank you for calling me out of course no I I appreciate you're you're holding me to a highest standard I deserve it and I also want to say that I'm open to changing my mind when things are being pointed out or if your poll said like no one thinks core WordPress is confusing yeah I'd have to update my priors so I'm open to changeing my mind yeah um yeah and I am too that's why I did the PLL because it's like I have this thing that I pretty strongly believed that otherswouldn't agree with and I was wrong I'm going to stop pushing that point but yeah okay so your question was is there a point at which more contributions to Wordpress would no longer be benefiting WordPress directly or the community and potentially could even hurt like the too many cooks in the kitchen problem um I mean yes potentially but I will say there is so much to do because you can by the way it's not just code you can contribute translations organizing word camps meetups marketing uh we allow like a whole variety supportforums answering helping users in in our free forums like all these things they all account for five for the future so we try to make it so anyone whether they can code or not can really be involved in the community so would it be fair to add external open source projects that benefit all WordPress users to that definition of contributions and let me clarify here because I think people get worked up when I talk about the five for five for the future cont contribution versus General contributions so I would sayliterally everyone who uses WordPress or tells their friend about it is contributing in some way right like if you just have a WordPress site and you tell your friend hey I like WordPress awesome you just contributed so I I personally have a very very Broad View so would it be fair to say having your that's not the five for the future definition okay so perhaps I should distinguish better in my speech um the five for the future sort of count contribution the word work standard versus I do believe I actually thinkanyone like I said super BR so would betting your billion- dooll business entirely on WordPress pushing it as hard as you can and making it in your opinion the best plat assuming they believe their platform is the best way to host WordPress which I think it's fair to say they probably believe that at the very least in their minds they are contributing to Wordpress in the general sense that you're describing the same way like me telling a friend to use WordPress them their whole business on it is a contribution to the ecosystemwell obviously my opinion is there are better places to host WordPress that are cheaper so that's my opinion uh two I will say that uh if you want me to give them credit sure I'll give them credit so they have gotten you know 1.5 million websites to pay them so host WordPress awesome like Kudos do you can we agree that there is some percentage within there that may not have ended up using Wordpress if it wasn't for WP engine it's hard to say how much it is but that there's like I don't know like at least 50,000 peoplethat would be slightly less likely to have been on WordPress if WP engine wasn't one of the companies that existed pushing WordPress further I will say it is more than zero however I will say there are literally hundreds of other places that get WordPress and the reason all the way but none of them are making their whole bet in branding around WordPress where another host like like GoDaddy has less incentive and does less to push WordPress to its users than WP engine does and WP engine is spending money on marketing spending money onpress spending money on all these things to so does GoDaddy so do BLU host on everything so like let's look at the homeage of some of these others they have WordPress usually in the navigation they promote it they do that because it helps them get more customers not because do you disagree that having word press as like the theming for your homepage is a bigger confidence Builder that is saying more like we are betting our business on this because we think it is great so someone else who bets their business on it is word is Bluehost bythe way let's look at the Bluehost website everyone open bluehost.com by the way this is an example of someone who I think is an awesome host that's not I don't own them right so it says WordPress web hosting domains the first navigation item menu is WordPress they have a commercial license so they can call it WordPress hosting um it says they have the logo it says recommended it says WordPress website creation easy so they they are betting their company as well on word y but they're also paying the commercial fee which I thinknegates the point let's say they weren't paying the commercial fee they got rid of the recommended by would this be if if they weren't paying the commercial fee I would definitely get in touch with them about this logo that this that yeah totally okay so so so to make the point I'm trying to make here you don't count this as promotion until they're paying the fee I so they are using the WordPress logo and trademark in a very commercial way here so if I came across this and they had nocommercial license um yes I get tou them I wouldn't send a c and I would call them up I would talk the specific reason I'm saying like this is irrelevant to the thing I'm trying to bring up right now is I'm trying to point out that even if they weren't paying the trademark and WP engine who's not paying the trademark that having a website pushing WordPress this hard is a net benefit to the community so to give an example you know if you hover over the WordPress thing here it says WordPress hosting so they could callthat blue hosting with WordPress mhm but they're calling it WordPress hosting yeah um but in a way that's very I think in the trademark law this is uh this is what would count but you know this is also true if they disagreed we could go to court and a judge could decide we have to so there's two different points here we have to agree on the first is that a website that is a hosting site that is promoting WordPress as its main offering on its homepage is that promoting WordPress is that in any way similar towhen I tell a friend hey you should use WordPress is having your business bet on it in that way not just it's an option in the nav but your homepag is we like WordPress we're a WordPress host so and maybe we agree to disagree here uh my opinion is that they are doing it because they will get more customers because people are looking for a WordPress host that's why but people are looking for hosts for a lot of things so by way Google WordPress hosting and look at all the ads people are spending probably over 100 million a yearadvertising on the keywords WordPress hosting why do they do that because they want to be able to spend their life working on a thing they care about which I think in this case is wordress they do it because they get more customers the companies for for volunteers sure there's lots of things that host or there's lots of different things you can host in lots of places would they not theoretically be able to make more money if they also supported Drupal um so so yes they could put druple on their homepage they could putjumer on their homepage they could they put WordPress because it gets some more customers but if they put WordPress and Drupal would they lose a lot of Wordpress customers no like Pantheon for example Pantheon's an example that does both WordPress and Drupal they actually used to be exclusively of Drupal shop yep they've now shifted so I haven't looked at their home page recently but but the specific point I'm trying to make here you don't need to pull up the page cuz like I I think the point I'mtrying to make is clear and if chat can help me clarify on this like like am I being clear or not chat let me know if I'm being unclear I feel like I've been very clear with this that a company choosing to bet 100% on WordPress is in a way promoting WordPress and if they are not putting other options in some amount of that is that they don't want the other options they want to support and be part of Wordpress because they like WordPress I think that is a fair thing to say I think this is a good example Pantheon sopantheon.io people want to check it out for another web host that supports multiple platforms they started as exclusively druple uh experience yeah it supports yeah governance for WordPress Drupal and next yeah and and if you look down here they've got logos for all three yeah are they paying the commercial license fee um they do not have a commercial license no okay but are you okay with them using the logo because it's being used alongside other logos which makes it clear that it is not just like that thisis not associated with WordPress I am not a lawyer okay so I would ask my lawyers this is if you had to ask me on the Fly I think this is fine okay so but that's I don't want to be legally H so the two points I want to talk about here are if it was just the WordPress logo instead of these other two and if we go scroll back up to the top of the page and it wasn't just it wasn't WordPress Drupal and next it was just WordPress does that not indicate that they are more interested in WordPress than otherplatforms so what I would do because we have some of the top lawyers in the world I would go to them and say going close it's just so not okay um so I would go to them and say hey is this a violation or not yeah okay because you know I have my opinions whatever I'm not a lawyer be clear this isn't about the Le this is about your opinions and we're trying to understand how you think about these things but my opinions don't matter legally so I went to lawyers and said is what WP engine doing wrong andthey said yes would they not say the same with Pantheon there um I can ask them if you'd like me to uh I would actually not like right now or any like time soon but the point I'm trying to make is the use of the WordPress name and logo is likely in violation in a lot of places okay so as a followup yes I will ask our lawyers whether what Pantheon is doing on their homepage is they would consider worth doing a no worth doing if it meets the definition of a trademark violation sure um okay I'll ask them uh we could also run thepanel you know or do a surve why don't you do a survey why don't you ask ask the people yeah ask the people uh do another do another po what is what is the question pantheons you know confusing it's this isn't about confusion this is about supporting the ecosystem right now so I no no no the question is whether confusion in the marketplace remember the 15% threshold so let's see if 15% of people think Pantheon is 15% or more is you know looks like they're officially associated with the WordPress trademark why why wejust ask it I or how do you want toas it how you because always to think that that's not what this is about why don't we ask about WP Eng let's do it there because they're loading the no so so the the point I'm trying to make is very focused in on this idea that a host that is focusing on one frameworker platform is supporting that one that that is a method of support by H here instead of being company let's say a developer if I was to say on my Twitter page that I am a nextjs remix spelt kitand gasby developer or I was to say I'm a next s developer just the xjs which of those is promoting xjs more Theo our legal case is about the trademark not about them supporting or not so all I'm talking about is a trademark violation the it seems like like what I'm talking about has nothing to do with the the legal stuff I'm purely talking in terms of things that WP engine is doing to contribute to Wordpress that betting on WordPress is a method of contribution the same way me putting WordPress developer my bio onTwitter is a bigger contribution to Wordpress than me saying WordPress comma react comma nextjs comma Gatsby I already gave them Kudos and I already said Thank You by the way thank you WP engine for all that so okay but I just want to push back on this idea that they aren't contributing because there's a lot of types of contribution and it's hard for me to believe that WP engine doesn't like WordPress and runs a business exclusively focused on it like if I was at WP engine and I didn't like WordPressI'll be pushing for them to add Drupal and next and all these other things but it seems like they like it it seems like they're bet their entire business and livelihoods on it and I would make the argument that in some ways it feels as though they're being punished for not supporting other platforms as well they are being punished for the trademark violation okay okay that's it that's that's all we're doing legally so uh yes thank you w we've hit the wall on that one I'm happy to move next why don't we did thepoll though I'm kind of curious like what your people think uh we can do two maybe one for Pantheon one for so somebody asked a question who benefits more WP engine from WordPress or WordPress from WP engine I'm not going to sit here and pretend that WP engine isn't benefiting more from WordPress like that that we don't need to pull that's obvious I will absolutely concede that point the reason I would do polls is to address potential confusion in a thing that we don't agree on and the the poll I would like to do is canwe agree that WordPress engine is contributing in some meaningful amount look what you just did because you use WP to abbreviate WordPress we're saying we're hopping between the two that's I have by the way they do this too how awesome is it that I made it that long without doing that their Executives do this they have it on their page we have so many examples where on their on their website they said WordPress engine so like yeah that understandable mishap I so technically speaking when I say JavaScript instead of JS I'm violatingOracle trademarks so these things happen yes that that is a thing and there's actually a whole movement right now to get Oracle to drop the JavaScript trademark # free Javascript is a whole thing I just did a video on it uh Ryan D the creator of no JS Andino is the one pushing it and the thing they don't comment on that I think is a potential issue for it to quickly to the art is that JavaScript being like Creative Commons open licensed like the the term being public domain could potentially hurt the Java trademark and that is animportant thing to consider that isn't included in this movement which I think is important enough to to call out that any potential risk to the Java trademark is something that Oracle should reasonably be concerned about but them owning and operating the javascrip trademark when they literally do not use it for a single thing is not they're not using the trademark they it should be forced out but that's that's a whole thing and legally speaking you cannot have a JavaScript conference people havebeen sued for trying somebody got sued for doing a they did a course that was rust for JavaScript developers and Oracle tried suing them for it so it's TR Mark going could be very aggressive so today I learned thank you and like I said I had never heard of your channel before yesterday so I think I'm going to follow now because I'm learning stuff from you so thank you this is what I'm here for is nering out about these deep detail things but uh well can we can we ask about the uh you know WP engineWordPress engine confusion yeah um I can do that how do you want to phrase that um so could be a be confused as one thing but there's a lot of other things like I mentioned before with like next doth with next UI where people could reasonably confuse it so and I agree it's reasonably easy to confuse those things if you're just hearing about WordPress engine and even going to their website I could see why someone might be confused but I feel like the website itself doesn't make it that confusingI'm down for that how about is the wp engine website does the wp engine website seem to indicate that they are an official part of Wordpress or the owners of Wordpress so yeah how do we phrase this look like it is operated by the people who own and operate WordPress that's a little strong um does it let's say does it feel like an official thing yes does it does it feel like an official part of Wordpress that's fair so if you want to phrase it like that that's fair does the wp engine website make it look or WP engine.com sogo to WP engine.com engine web we're going to get them so much traffic this is probably the most traffic they've got in a long time word press so how you phrase it no not sure best I could fitting it into the tiny window you have for the poll so it's does the wp engine web look like official WordPress question mark is the best I could fit in the tiny window here and it's yes or no yes no we're not sure I'm so curious what this is going to be yeah so again threshold 15% and and the way the lawyers do this is they get likea panel and there's a whole legal way to do it it's not a poll like this but um they try to get statistically random distribution of like the population and how long all you are commenting the poll stays for 2 minutes all of you are saying the most trusted WordPress platform is the quote that they are focusing on yeah 58% are saying yes it looks like official WordPress thus far wow that's way higher yeah High don't know would have expected it's so clearly WordPress hosting and creating on WordPress not part ofWordpress in my opinion from chat by the way that's fine official WordPress is a good question um the threshold is 15% so again yeah the majority can think it's uh totally separate or whatever the thresholds one and six mhm how long would you say this has been a problem for like how long has WP engine met that threshold oh that's a good question um this is a legal thing of course so I don't know if I want to tie myself to anything of course um I'm not dodging the question of course that that for forthe legal reason I could understand but do you feel like through the majority of wp's operation that this threshold is reasonably assumed to have been met uh so I'll say a few things um things changed when Silver Lake bought them in 2018 so that's when things started to get a lot more aggressive earlier than that I think they were doing some really cool stuff um you know they bought flywheel they kind of some people say made it worse um now people pointed out like hey last year you spoke at theirconference so I will say that I've been trying really hard hard to you know show them Goodwill uh I spoke at their commercial conference it wasn't like a word Camp it was like their commercial promotional thing and I went there and spent an hour doing an interview that's like obviously I was really trying to extend the Olive Branch really try to bring him into the fold and I will say I feel very LED on that they were going to do something so again for many many months um they've been indicating we'll do a deal we'll doa deal we'll do a deal so and they've had numerous proposals and opportunities um again this one pager we sent them on Friday was meant to be super simple and something that even if they had just verbally been like sure let's talk about it but they didn't and so that's why we gave them the option I was like okay you just want to like engage some way but they literally wouldn't even take my call um so I was calling them they spoke to my CFO Mark but they didn't speak to me so so the how's the poll doing by theway uh the poll it was yes about 50% what was the last number 41% was no and then 8% was not share but 50 a bit over 50% yeah I can see why you would have concerns that is reasonable the do we want to do Pantheon see like if anyone's confused by Pantheon no be confused by Pantheon well let's just see let's see what their percent is like because you asked me you said why aren't you I don't have to be monitoring a poll while I'm doing this no but you asked me why I'm not going after Pantheon so let's let'ssee why I'm not going after it's near zero that's why let's see the people we also aged we also agreed earlier that we're doing this you brought up Al Capone it's an example where they went after him for tax laws even though that was not the thing that was most problematic that he did and I I think that's a a very important example to illustrate that this is in some amount a retaliatory effort that the the goal here is to make them in your minds a better contributor to the WordPress ecosystem I have triedfor many years that carrots I am now trying a stick that is fair to say yes the would it be in any way fair to say that the stick felt sudden and harsh to them um to people from the outside yes okay uh to people to Heather or Lee mhm no okay and I will say for what it is worth I have tried reaching out to Heather and Lee and they have for many reasons I would prefer to not discuss many varying validity have not been interested in doing a conversation with me I understand I am disappointed it'd be nice to get more information from allsides here but I don't think that excuses the the level at which this escalated and the potential damage to the WordPress community Through the way that these things have been escalated and enforced that it be reasonable for others like you even said yourself that you emailed GoDaddy yesterday to let them know they have nothing to worry about I didn't say but I said I think we're good yeah but the the point being you could see others would be concerned about the state of Wordpress as a result of this okay few things there well one aquestion for you if Heather Ali wanted to come on absolutely yeah at the very least I would do the call with them I don't know if it would be fun enough to do a like a live stream and a video about because it's depends what we have to talk about and how much they're going to restrict what I'm allowed to ask about because you haven't given me any restrictions at all or any pre like planning of like I cannot ask or talk about these things you given me a little bit of info in the past that I um thatwas not under like or on the record that I'm not able to share that is important context I wish I could but none of it is important enough to change the direction of this conversation or the understanding people have externally but if they were to say we can't talk about these five things I would say okay then we can't talk and you've done nothing like that for me Lee again managing director whatever his title is of $12 billion firm and by the way he's the decision maker so this is even above Ithink one of the things that I felt led on by is I think of many WP engine employees want to do a deal they want to contribute more and I've actually had whistleblowers inside WP engine tell me that a lot of my info has come from inside their company yeah so um but ultimately they kept saying the board won't approve this the board would approve this that's why we escalated I was like okay who's your board okay this guy leaves in charge he controls the whole thing they own the company so that's why we escalated it to him sohe's the person that should come on he's the decision maker ultimately he could say yes to this tomorrow or he could say no which he has had at any point you publicly communicated that you were upset with WP engine and their use of the trademark before everything exploded at WordPress or at a word Camp quite the opposite I've done everything to be very positive about them I spoke at their conference I've said positive things about them but in the past so I've been extremely positive publicly so this isactually what I think is part of the problem is optically publicly this was very sudden and even internally privately the switch was very sudden like just to if I was in your position I had all the same beliefs all the same feelings that you had my Approach would have been to start with the escalation but not as rapidly as you did like suddenly saying like same day like like days after you had been positive towards them WP engine is a cancer on the community that was a massive jump and escalation and anytime there's a Vibe ata certain level and you escalate it somewhere else that quickly it will be perceived terribly and damage the community that it happened in these 0 to 100 type things do a lot of damage and it's important to warm people up to these ideas so personally I would have been much lighter and started hinting at things publicly like there are a couple players in the space that I feel like aren't contributing enough and it would be nice to see more contributions from a few of them and then text them like hey by the way I was hinting at this Ireally think we should have a talk soon but like like part of the carrot is the public like mentioning of these things and making them realize that this can happen rather than suddenly going gun guns blazing out like you did publicly I wonder how I can explain my point of view there so as an example though they were a top sponsor at Work Camp so we allowed them other people want to sponsor by the way we allowed them to have this sort of honored position but also they paid money to the WordPress foundation for that position no but wehave to choose the top sponsors cuz there's more people want to be a top sponsor than we have slots we only have four SL can raise the price um we don't need to for the conference so we don't need more we we just run a my break even so um but yes there are more than four people that would love to have that top that's actually that's a really important point is that I I don't agree that that isn't a meaningful method of contribution but I could see with the perspective I don'tthink anyone knew this before I certainly didn't know this before that the for-profit word Camp subsidiary of the WordPress Foundation profit despite being a for-profit specifically runs the conferences at break even and as such they're not going to raise the prices for sponsors to make more money because that money would not make it back to the WordPress foundation and as such I can understand why you specifically would not see that as a meaningful contribution to Wordpress to sponsor word camp that is fair to say yes thatis like five layers of nuance nobody could possibly have known and even then I think it's very reasonable and I'll do the poll I'm going to do a poll now for this uh does word or does wp engine is sponsoring word Camp a type of contribution it is a type of contribution 100% I think we're going to change a name to uh Booth advertising so because by the way they spend the the top slot is 75 grand there's four of them M we have way more demand than we have slots um but when you look at they had 34people at the word Camp they spent more than 75 grand on the booth and you know let's do the math on flying 34 people to Portland putting them in hotels for 4 days like so it's a the sponsorship is a small percent of the marketing they're doing and they meet customers there so we have thousands of attendees so it's part of by the way why do the other hosts do it as well you can kind of look around there's like blue host there automatics there everyone does it we do it to get customers but it's still amethod of contribution you you keep saying that sure it's a method of contribution but is it altruistic or is it marketing which part would them contributing is five for the future purely altruistic so let me put it this way um the IRS would not say it's a nonprofit contribution yeah would they say contributing to the WordPress open source projects a nonprofit contribution no exactly they don't so that's it used to be the found the Foundation used to do all the events the reason we had to create the for-profit subsidiary was cuzthe sponsors kept breaking the nonprofit rules it was threatening our nonprofit status that's why you had to create the for-profit sub that makes sense but in the same sense f for the future code contributions also aren't nonprofit donations they are not exactly under us I don't think this is a fair point to bring up because both of these things in the same sense are not donations um again I try to acknowledge their contributions I've just said they paid 75 grand have a booth at we camp um now what I have gone after them for isthe trademark confusion which 54% of your audience thinks is confusing I'm going to run another PLL after this one do people feel as though the initial why don't I ask the conference question that's a good one so the uh it's sponsored yeah I did it's a 50/50 split ish yeah it's 48 say is sponsoring word Camp contribution 48% say yes 43% say no and what percentage would you say would change your mind there uh this one is making me shift a little bit I would have expected it to be much largertowards contributing towards a conference is absolutely a contribution I would have guessed closer to 70 this is a surprise to me I absolutely consider contributing to events like like if I'm in the kind of depends on the event I'm deeply in the react ecosystem I consider the companies that sponsored react conf this year to absolutely be contributing to the react ecosystem because if they didn't it would be very real for that event to not have been run at all and possibly not happen next year and I consider thesetypes of sponsorships and contributions absolutely important I don't know behind the scenes that they had people fighting for that top spot I don't know behind the scenes if it was profitable or not I know none of those things because for most conferences these aren't things people know but I would look at the companies that sponsor that event and be like yes they are contributing to the react ecosystem by sponsoring the react conference this is important and I'm happy that they are here doing this Ithink it depends on the event too so word camps by the way the tickets for a three or four day event with meals and everything like that $100 that is really cheap for that event so part of why we do that is we bring in lots of newbies yes so if you go to work Camp there's developer tracks there's also people there that are just bloggers and like just starting and so part of the reason sponsors like it is because they can get lots of new customers because people are like oh let me find a good WordPresshost what's the most trusted WordPress hosting platform oh this WP engine thing looks pretty nice WordPress engine that sounds official how do I put this point this do I want to go down this one yet or do I want to go straight to Silver Lake so I kind of want to go straight to Silver Lake because how we don't on time like how much left uh I only have two major questions left and how long have we been streaming there are some we' been going for about an hour and a half oh wow yeah we we talked about going 45 minutes wowyeah I we have a lot to talk about so the things I want people are watching by the way uh I have no idea no easy way to check it right now uh I tend to not look at those numbers they they mean like I only go live to talk with my community as I'm making good content the people who I care about are always here I trust them to let me know if anything is wrong but my angle with all of this is always to be more focused on making the best possible video for the end result so I The View kind doesn't help with me withthat at all so uh the Apparently uh people are saying in chat I have about 500 on Twitch and about a thousand on YouTube okay I did not expect YouTube to be that huge that is unusual and really cool so the I have two questions I want to go over but there's also some super chats I want to do first super Chats on YouTube bar way for people to spend money to make their message like much more visible cool one person and it's a bit rude so I'll do like filter it out uh can you let Matt know that many smallbusiness owners are suffering from this right now we host over 300 sites on WordPress engine the only people truly suffering at this moment are mostly small business owners and they don't know any better uh thank you for letting me know that I'm really sorry that WB engine's actions have hurt you or you consider it my actions that's why we did the reprieve they have until Monday night to you know change their update server and everything they have the ability to so um all the code is GPL they can host itthemselves they can run it themselves so uh apparently somebody in chat is claiming that they had a project PHP wasum and the WordPress project made a clone of it called PHP dwom and uh how is that not the same thing as what is going on here um I'm just hearing that about that now so whoever said that um if you want me to look into that uh you can DM me my DMs are open on Twitter photomat I will say and I'm happy to follow up on there Matt is very accessible uh to the person who made that super chat I don't want tolike I'm getting a lot of messages right so it might me a or to get back to you but please out I'm happy to look into that if you think that's an issue yeah and I'm sorry that you felt like you had to Super Chat multiple times ad I was going to ask that at all points I just didn't have a chance CU we were in the middle of the other bits uh that's another good question if you had your pick on sponsors because there were so many options why did you continue to pick WP engine if you feltlike they were not a good player in the space because they kept saying they were going to be okay so they've been leading me on forever so I kept I kept believing them I feel like a fool and I didn't realize that people could run business this way and be so deceptive but yeah I felt led on do you feel like it would have been more likely for them to make a deal if you had ramped up the public attack on them slightly slower If instead of going immediate guns blazing with the blog post and the referring tothem as a Cancer and like at an event they were sponsoring Bering them on stage If instead you would started in a more subtle way like hey I'm happy everybody is here there are companies in the space I don't consider good actors there are even some here that I feel like are not contributing back enough I hate that because it's important for everybody in this EOS system everybody's benefiting from this to be putting something back and I hope the companies that are not putting back enough are down to reconsider and then not doanything for a month or two go back to privately negotiation or private negotiations if it continues to not happen escalate slightly more don't let them sponsor word Camp next year be like no these types of things are a thing you can't do anymore things that don't directly hurt their customers but hurt their business because we went from not doing anything to hurt WP engine at all in fact being quite supportive of them to immediately going to a level of damage that doesn't even just hurt WP engine or their customers the Optics ofthis whole situation hurt the Optics of Wordpress fundamentally like people will now be possibly forever more scared of their use of Wordpress due to the fact that something like this is possible and it can escalate this quickly um maybe we'll see on our growth numbers in the next year so we can check in on how we're doing let me introduce a few facts to this so um I can think of one example where we banned someone from work camps before it was actually Pantheon But but so so they got banned for a few years then we I forget howlong and then they're allowed they were actually sponsor of this work Camp so I'm not saying ban them I'm saying don't let them sponsor that's what we didn't let Pantheon sponsor and then now they're a sponsor again so um my default is definitely much more friendly engagement um if you look at my 21 year history of running WordPress um people are like oh you know he got in this fight with this thesis guy I think that's my last big fight I think it was like I couldn't find any major beefsince then so I like what what year was 2015 about 10 years ago yeah yeah so that was yeah 2015 but it did I will say from reading through what happened there it seemed similarly I don't know I don't have better word other than Petty like it went a little further fur than it should have a lot faster than it should have and spending 100 like $100,000 on a domain to like get at somebody is weird Vibes um can I restate what he was doing wrong it was not a trademark violation he was violating the GPL license so he was his claim was that aWordPress theme was not derivative of GPL code and if you know how that that was his claim so our our stance and The Stance of the free software foundation and everyone else is that plugins and themes for WordPress because of how they tie into our Hooks and Action System need to be GPL uh would it be I I don't want to just nerd out about open source LIC for a second okay we'll out for a second so and by the way free software Foundation agrees like I got everyone to check on this okay so there are absolutely plugins that areGPL licensed for WordPress and other things like the stripe plugins the W Commerce plugins all of those things where they only function if a paid for service is attached to them totally fine that's not a GPL violation if he had made he was relicensing so he was not abiding by the verality if he was to have the like the PHP code for example for the theme that was all open sourced but all of the stylesheets were paid for that that's possible okay so I think stylesheets is not counted as linking the PHP code iscounted as linking under the nerdy GPL so that was the argument in 2015 so he was violating the GPL license GP license is really important to me I'm like an open source dealer so so would you believe that by open sourcing the the thing that binds the CSS or even if it was like it gets the layout from a database that it like caches locally but it applies it through this PHP code and that code is open source like abstracting as much as possible but the shim forward is open source I mean as long as the PHP code isGPL that was our only argument the PHP code could be load a file remotely and execute it mhm as long as that code was GPL okay so I guess my issue here is that it feels like he could have arbitrarily gotten around this on the one hand it's DB that he didn't on the other hand it makes the whole argument feel kind of dumb but beyond that the decision to buy the domain that he wanted to use for the project the.com for $100,000 as a way of like prodding at him felt Petty I'm not saying it was I'm saying it could be absolutely perceived that way and what I care about here isn't how you or I feel directly it is important and it matters but the way these things are perceived externally is much more important uh that's his claim that we did that um there's other reasons we could own thesis. comom for example I believe at the time we were considering like a project around hosting things and by the way if he there's a do you know about the UPR or udrp or something no uniform domain resolution policy so I can run something that of a trademark holder believes a domain holder is violating their trademark they can go to Ian and get it back we've done this many times with the word for trademark so he could have done that he felt like what we were doing was a trademark specific pattern I want to call out here where wehave a conversation about a thing that you see as like morally deficient like the GPL stuff is it legally deficient yes we could abstract from there but I think the reason this happened is you didn't feel good about him doing that no you're you're scrapping an opinion to me he was violating the GPL license that was the beef um now and my other point was that 21 years there's like one or two examples before this so yes if you're worried about the future of Wordpress yes once every s to 10 years Imight get in a fight with a company um but I think that's if you look at our growth and how many successful businesses are built on WordPress the WordPress ecosystem is probably 10 billion a year so I think there's many more examples of it fine but can can we take a moment to commiserate with the WordPress users WordPress developers WordPress ecosystem members that have concerns right now based on how this was all handled okay let's commiserate re really though like I think it's important to tell them thatlike you are committed to do I want you to commit to in the future when issues like this are had with the WordPress trademark that you'll put an effort to find a path forward that does the least damage to developers using Wordpress um I will do every effort to resolve things amicably every effort and I I I what what you consider amicably and what does actual damage to current WordPress users that love WordPress that recommend it to all their friends that are huge members of this community that are scared rightnow I think there is value in committing to them that in the future this rapid escalation and the trust that it can harm is a thing that you will go out of your way to try and prevent um I'll do my best there do I ever screw up yes 100% times absolutely I'm not even asking you to acknowledge that this was a screw up I think parts of it could been handy butter and you you've you've convinced me of that by the way the the community convinced me of that I had lots of people reach out so that's that's why werevers the ban and everything like that so like there was a path here where I think you could have handled this really well gotten a really good deal with them and not had the community as concerned as they are at the moment like the fact that I have 1700 people watching us live right now is says a lot about how much concern there is about these things you're holding me to a standard can you also hold WP engine to a standard that they could have resolved this in a million other ways sure but it also let's dive into mysecond to last Point here actually we kind of just said my last question with this like the we'll wrap up with that that part and then I'll do the silver like deep dive but the last like core point about this in the community how much damage to the WordPress Community is acceptable in these disputes oh I would prefer zero yes but not preference like if like let's say that WP engine was 10 times worse that they were actively telling people we are the only official WordPress wordpress.com isn't real we are theone how much potential damage to Wordpress users and the community would you be willing to eat in the process of ending that again my preference would be zero your preference Z but can you imagine a threshold where it's like okay this is too much like this affects too many like let's say they also had over 50% of Wordpress users using their stuff would it be okay to immediately cut them off or even like have a path where they the users on there might be less secure and it might damage the over half ofWordpress developers assuming that they were being even more egregious uh so they could run their own update servers by the way we do that for wordpress.com but didn't you say that specifically like the the tech to make those work reliably and safely was a lot of time and investment yeah we did that so I mean wordpress.com hosts millions of Wordpress sites we don't we we we manage all that so if wordpress.org went away wordpress.com sites would be fine pressible sites would be fine Blu host Cloud sites would be fine interesting so yeah we made that investment would you say wpn is the biggest host that relies on wordpress.org is there like update layer um no other hosts have more okay um I would say again they're uniquely egregious in their their abuse they're also one of the only hosts that's 100% WordPress most other hosts are like 50/50 so they're like 100% WordPress though that's actually part of what I think is what is hard for me to understand I feel like if I I have a stack called the T3 stack it's one of the more popular ways to build with nextjs nowadays if somebody was to Brand themselves as like the best place to host T3 stack applications or theultimate T3 stack host I would see that as I would be hyped I would be really excited about that to see people betting that heavily on te how about if I started TP engine.com and then my homed said said the most trusted place to host TP stack T3 but like T3 is my specific trademark WP is not part of the trademark if my trademark was just Theo and T3 was a thing I just like didn't even like directly use it was just a com but like like if I went by Theo Brown like my full name and somebody did like TB Dash something yeah do you have thetrademark for the number and also spelled out like t t h re e e no but if somebody was to so if somebody was to do t t hre hosting I would not consider that particularly egregious so if I registered t.com and then offered the best T3 hosting platform or I would not care okay that's good to know so why you do that y there was funny enough there was somebody who did the T4 stack which was very clearly meant to be misleading and pull people from my community which was really funny and then they started they're the only person making money offof T3 the trademark right now which is hilarious but this is a good example though yes you're the trademark owner you get to decide yes so you can decide this Y and you could talk to a lawyer as well and even then I I went so out of my way with them privately they were [ __ ] privately and publicly and they were the ones who escalated so I was like okay I'm just going to call this guy out and this is the first time I've even said T4 like publicly in probably a year at this point and and that I couldrant for every about how awful that particular individual is but like that's a separate thing that is still something I'm not going to pursue legally and my issue with them has nothing to do with the legal or trademark thing I think and this the point I trying to make earlier is that like someone going 100% on WordPress in my opinion is something and if I was in your position I'd be excited about versus somebody doing 50/50 of their customers like that like somebody who's 100% betting on WordPress to mefeels like a better Community member than somebody who's 50/50 on their bet I don't want to get too lost of details people are giving examples of like git versus GitHub again as Matt said you can choose how you enforce your trademark lius has chosen to not enforce the get trademark ever as far as I know so yeah there's GitHub there's get lab so that's his choice yes and you I guess what people are struggling with is the idea that you are selectively choosing when to enforce it is is understood publiclyespecially because up until this point you've been positive towards WP engine and this feels somewhat sudden the swap uh sure yeah so that that was specific concern so a host needs to pass the sniff test it's unclear what the sniff test is the consequence of them failing it is that the WordPress or access might be restricted and I I don't there could be there could be any consequences right what is hard now is is as a WordPress developer it now feels like they have to be careful when they're picking a host tomake sure that it is either the official automatic wordpress.com or recommended it is a recommended one and there there is now a fear that picking WordPress host that isn't on the recommendations list which WP engine was up until a point recently no they were never on they were never on the recommendations list okay yeah but they were allowed to sponsor word camp and that could be seen as some level of an endorsement so yes I would say you probably should pick a host that's on our recommended list or a sponsor wordCamp if somebody picked up word especially the recomend somebody picked up WP engine because they talked with them at word camp this year and they had just moved to it a few days before all of this exploded and now suddenly they can't update their site do you feel bad for that person can you take ownership of the fact that there was a method to get to the outcomes that you wanted here that would have prevented them from being hurt without risking the likelihood of success with your goals at all sure you made thatpoint okay cool awesome that's a huge concession that means a lot to me thank you so yeah and you can see why now somebody who who might have been affected by that now feel some level of stress that they might pick wrong and might run into this again um I would say they probably should consider yes picking one of the recommended hosts so that's there's a reason we recommend them okay so I want to dive into Silver Lake Silver Lake OH I have found a lot of weird mixed information all over the place for context for those watchingSilver Lake is an investment firm that I believe has fully acquired the uh WP engine or at the very least it's board seats they control it okay they control it so they they own a majority of the voting and everything and in my presentation at word Camp I mentioned other open source things so were like a screwed up okay so I think I had two or three examples MH I do you remember those off the top of your head uh Talent the nity maybe I I forget what they were so check out my presentation is at Work Camp yeah or on the WordPressYouTube yeah so so can you give us a timeline of silver lak's involvement both in automatic as well as in uh or WP engine without saying information you're not allowed to share sure what's public um they have never been an investor in automatic um what's public is in 2018 they uh purchased a majority of WP engine for $250 million were was there ever a point where you were in negotiations with Silver Lake for potentially investing in automatic no no okay I I try remember where I had heard it from that thatmight have been a thing but not a big deal either way yeah that's my recollection um I have met with Lee many times over the years like I said he used to be on the board of GoDaddy I don't believe they are anymore and God is a public company I think they were a smaller investor they wer a control investor um the and he has been on the board of WP engine I'm not sure exactly but I think since the acquisition in 2018 makes sense really good information to have I had heard somewhere that there mighthave been some back and forth way way earlier on between you and Silver Lake for potential negotiation so good to know I I will say we have talked many times over the years about working more closely with WP engine that's fair to say so but specifically miles is begging for attention but specifically automatic and Silver Lake have never been in meaningful negotiations for potential investment or collaboration in automatic not to my recollection no okay by the way automatic has raised a ton of money we have great investors umI didn't at the time in my 20s control it but now I vote 84% of the shares through proxy agreements with different investors so um I think every share that's traded hands since 2012 maybe oh we got another cat in there hello um I have a voting proxy for so that's part of the reason by the way that I'm able to run automatic in a way that we've never changed a license and all the other stuff so it's um yeah really good context to have so at what point would you say your relationship withSilver Lake started to go sour that's a good question I would say that you know as recently as January I took a sabatical by the way in February March and April um actually is very busy prior to that I met with Heather twice like I think on the 24th and 28th um and Lee I've met with before so I I would say I really thought they were going to do a deal since January um the guy who ran automatic for a few months Tony Schneider was like he met with her they he thought there was going to be a deal during his time whenI came back I was like why isn't there a deal kept working on it so um so when did I realize they were just delaying and leading me on honestly probably last week okay so this is actually really good feel dumb but like that's that's I almost want to do this part off stream but for the sake of like everyone like if I was a friend or new of you before this right when I saw things explode I would have just personally reached out and like man there's a more productive way to do this cuz like that the like one week fromrealizing they're leading you on to this explosion especially with in between like like some of the texts you sent optically are terrifying the ones they cherry-picked totally yes absolutely but like they show the whole thread publish the whole thread so the reason I bring it up like I'm not saying this as a gotcha I'm saying this so that we can sympathize with the people who have concerns right now my goal here isn't to be like you screwed up you're terrible like you need to realize all thesethings are bad it's optically for people externally these things result in less trust and concerns and I want to make sure that you understand as a person who cares about these things and I as a person who wants these ecosystems to be as successful as possible that you understand enough of why people feel this way so that you can be more likely to succeeding your goals in the future and scare the people who have love and have bet on WordPress Less in the process I mean why is you know Silver Lake private Equity trying to smear mewhy did they dox our private text you started the public smearing they had no permission to publish our private Communications why have they doxed our public text um and why did they not publish any of their m mes they only published mine so like this is a smear campaign by the way they're going to have the nastiest lawyers the nastiest smear campaigns they're going to through paler and Cambridge analytica stuff against me so I I as a a person who I like I want you to be able to be successful with these things and I wantWordPress and WordPress developers to be able to trust and not be concerned this you're a leader you're a bdfl you need to do better than them I would love you to hold them to a very high standard Silver Lake stands to lose billions of dollars on their investment if we are successful in convincing the public that WP engine is maybe not the best word host I think there were ways to convince the public of that that would have made the public less scared I'll call you next time I'd love your advice I I unironically you have mynumber now I'm actually down the next time you are feeling this level of like emotional like vital towards anyone in or around any of these spaces actually call me I want to try and like talk you off the cliff before things get this bad okay well statistically it's probably going to be around like 2033 so let's plan we'll make a date to talk in 2033 excited for it but the how I put this point you are the one who has escalated the most with this no I believe they've escalated it quite a bit and I wish Icould share more of the stuff they done privately but I can't I okay I understand that publicly you can see why most people would perceive it as though you have escalated the most here sure yeah know like like whether or not the things you did were right whether or not you believe the things you did were right whether or not I believe the things you do are right the community overall feels as though the things you did at the very least went too far too fast and had impacts on WordPress users that they felt wereunfair sure and by the way you know this is not going through a PR person this is not going through my lawyers so yes it's very honest I'm going to I'm going to mess up I started as an engineer coded WordPress like I contribute a lot of code I'm I kind of I wasn't a CEO before I didn't go to business school I haven't had public relations training like yeah I'm going to screw this up so but for the sake of the community I think it's important to commit as the the person incharge of wordpress.org the person who runs automatic and the person who is trying to make WordPress the best way to build for the we that you commit to going out of your way to find healthier methods to do these things in the future and better ways to call out bad players that don't so quickly turn to damaging WordPress users um I will commit to that awesome what do you think is a good threshold like one month of notice a year of notice a week of notice like I I I think there's multiple Parts the notice is oneimportant detail but the more important thing to me is the the the knowledge for the the business business and soon after the knowledge for the public that there are concerns because to the average person who like a word Camp attendee you went from thinking word or WP engine was totally fine and them as a sponsor of word Camp totally fine to all of a sudden they are a Cancer to the ecosystem that like same day switch is terrifying so that's the big thing that needs to be avoided this is not a good defense but I will say that if you didyou see my ecosystem thinking post uh yes so that was was earlier in the week um prior to Work Camp so that was I forget what day it was uh but um the I think it might have been Tuesday or but so that was that was before if there was yes it was it was a matter of days if there was a month between these things even like you started with like a call out at word Camp that's like the example I gave before you use that as leverage in your conversations with Heather and the other people at the company and people on the board continue to not gowell you then even just like a small tweet or something like it really sucks that one of the biggest WordPress hosts doesn't contribute meaningfully back the blog post so I was raising the pressure on them absolutely the blog post called them a cancer huh the blog post called them cancer on Tuesday yes was it it was the one you posted the same day as the word Camp talk so that one did but the post that was I think that was Friday but we can look this up but the one earlier in the week did not call them cancer did call them outspecifically it did okay um that is news to me so on Tuesday last week you called them out this just to make sure cuz I do want to be accurate now everyone go visit M.T since we gave so much traffic to WP engine and everything like that sep I did see your message with the tradem I'll last that in a minute September 17th um okay so here's the the paragraph I published um do you me to read it or do you want to read it I can read it quick okay so compare the five for the future pages from automatic in WP enginetwo companies that are roughly the same size with Revenue in the ballpark of half a billion these pled are just a proxy and aren't perfectly accurate but as I write this automatic has over 3,786 hours per week not even counting me in WP engine has 47 hours WP engine has good people some of whom are listed on this that page but the company's controlled by Silver Lake a private Equity Firm with $102 billion in assets under management silver like silver like doesn't give a dang about your open source ideals it just wants a return onCapital that's a significant call out did you ever send this to them of course okay just making sure no just I have to clear dotting all my eyes and Crossing all my te's cool I'm reading the rest of this blog post this um he called out examples of companies that are contributing meaningfully right after I this helps with my perspective a lot knowing that this post existed and you were still letting them so I'm assuming the sponsorship agreement for or WordPress for Camp was long before any of this and that's also why we didn'tkick them out during the events CU of course uh it would have violated the contract they could have said hey we paid you I by the way I offered them the money back even after every I said hey if you want the 75k back we'll send it back because maybe they're like oh we didn't get what we but they had the booth for the whole time they talked to probably hundreds or maybe a thousand people but I offer them a full refunds this is good context to have I if this post existed if this was a thing that was well known amongst people inthe space was going on more time was had and then the strong call out happened like if this happened if this post was made like two months before word Camp even better I would be I wouldn't have even covered this this would have been like oh not my problem but the Optics of you went from being supportive of this business to calling them out to very soon after on stage calling them out at a conference they paid to be at immediately follow with a blog post calling them cancer that is terrifying as a person inthe community especially because like this has been around for 21 years 5 days is a very short amount of time in a 21-year timeline and I will also admit that I can be a uh I'm very like a calm in person but my Pros could be F uh Fury right so I I'm a writer I consider like writing like an artistic expression and sometimes I can get a little colorful with my phrasing did anybody proof the post before you posted it of course oh good to know yeah automatic has a full oh something cool automatic does we host a run long readsand the Adis magazine which by the way has won national magazine awards so we employ some of the top editors in the country that's insane no idea yeah so long raids an outst uh so um yeah I have fantastic editorial people at automatic and and I tap into them for things like this yeah that they make my writing way better by the way yes I I I have done a lot of copy editing part of how I got into the scene believe it or not is I offered to do a copy pass for a couple more prominent like web dev people that I wasvery much looked up to and they were so thankful for me helping them with like the wording of their blog posts that they pulled me into places I should not have been so so early in my career and kickstarted my Creator Journey so huge shout out to Ryan carniato uh or to Astro or to the creator of Astro Fred shot as well as the Tanner Lindsley creator of tan stack and Ryan carne as the creator of solid JS they're essential to my success in the space and that started for me just copy editing their stuff that's awesomeyeah these things are really important to me two last things this one is a trademark that one of my community members found apparently yall have the trademark for managed WordPress okay does that not mean almost every place that has WordPress hosting is in violation of your trademark a lawyer would have to evaluate that so I I I'm not a lawyer I don't want to comment on that totally fair the but you can see why people would be concerned now that if this is about a trademark dispute that a trademark that generic is petrifyingabout this possibly happening again I think that to maintain a trademark you have to enforce it I will say that if you look at all the businesses built in WordPress um we allow um I don't want to say this without messing up our legal case but like yes there's many many things that uh are below the threshold yes that would be legally confusing in the market uh so yeah totally fair response the and I have no current beef no cnds publicly with any other host or any other person this is a very unique situation to go back to the the longthing I Wasing earlier I I think due to the unique nature of the situation a uniquely kind optically public approach because of the long think about how long they dragged you on for you should have done the same play at their level drag them along the same way very slowly start to damage their reputation in a way that terrifies them you could have done even more damage to them potentially honestly not my style that's that's fair but as a CEO and the representative of the community there are things that aren't our style there'sa lot of things that aren't my style that I have to do now as the representative of a lot of people that many more even look up to and it kills me at times to not be able to like like the amount of times I've written a tweet as a reply and then deleted it or screenshot it and sent it to my CTO for an approval before I sent it like it's actually hilarious I've deleted more I have deleted more things I've typed that I've posted on Twitter for like over a year now and it's that's probably goodyes it is and that's the I really want to encourage here is like it's important to be the boss when you are the bdfl especially for something as important in arguably as important as WordPress it's literally like nearly half of the web it is so important to have you specifically be way Kinder than is even fair in order to make these egregious cases not like like something that was as negative as what you were went through here should not result in you being this negative it sucks it is terrible but at the sametime it is important as a representative of this community and as the one who who pushes them forward to eat some [ __ ] and get through that and it sucks we have to do it I I agree awesome and I want to thank you I say continue to hold me to a high standard with great power comes great responsibility right so please hold me to a high standard in the future give me this feedback I'm listening to the feedback here and I you know definitely keep this in mind for the future so I've learned learned a lotthrough this so thank you yep my one last thing it's small yeah where do you want I think it's important can you see why wordpress.com and wordpress.org is a confusing thing for people sure awesome with other companies like versell for example nextjs isn't the host versel is the host and they both get talked about equally at this point before it was not like that at all but even for me like I started using forell before I ever used nextjs by like over a year and even they're so clearly tied they're so clearly funding eachother that is what the ecosystem in the open source world nowadays is used to is like a company with one name is funding a thing with a different name and if others are using the other thing's name in their branding it's like yeah whatever they're not as long as they're not using forel's name it's fine that's why wordpress.com has to have a trademark license yes by the way wordpress.com could lose the trademark license if two of the three board members of the WordPress Foundation they decided they were not a good Steward so that's the way I set it up so if someone bought automa IC or something like that or I wasn't in control it could lose the trademark license actually one last question on that are either of the two other board members meaningful stakeholders in automatic uh zero zero okay awesome that is actually huge so they they were not be a financialincentive for them to benefit automatic if it was in any way if it was if if the option was like hurt WordPress foundation in their trademark or hurt automatic there is no Financial incentive for them to not hurt automatic um so and I'll describe the two people so I wanted to create a board which felt fair so sh is actually a republican she's run like to be endorsed by Trump and stuff so like very different from my politics like my politics are well I don't talk a lot but you can see my donations so um Mark goshh uh wasactually a journalist in the WordPress space so he ran uh probably the top like uh WordPress journalism site and um he stopped doing that many many years ago but when I was thinking of like oh who would be a good Steward of this um he was there uh the board's been pretty much the same since the WordPress Foundation started previously Jason Hoffman was on the board who actually was involved with like node and joyance and stuff like that so he was one of my advisers when WordPress was getting started he actually helped me rack thevery first servers that we ever had when I was down in San Diego putting the data center together he was you know handing them to me and we were putting the screws together so um he was on the board for a while and then I forget who took his place either mark or or um or shell now these are people I trust um neither owns any equity in automatic and um yeah do I trust them of course yes yeah yeah just wanted to make sure that like there wasn't a financial incentive for them to defend automatic in the process that was all that isactually really good information I'll be honest you've shifted me a bit I still think the way this was handled bordered on irresponsible but I am less sympathetic towards WP engine but I wish you had given them uh better public incentives than we given your last video was pretty harsh but I hey can we shake hands and say absolutely thank you so much and I hope in the future I can consider you a friend and you'll actually take me up on the calling me if there's another thing like this because uh the amount of I wouldhave done so many things like this a hundred times worse if I didn't have my group of people to talk me off these Cliffs the like I would do what you did last week monthly if I didn't have my crew to talk me off the stuff so it's the least I can offer I hope you take it seriously and I really hope that going forward the WordPress Community doesn't have to worry about the security and the sanctity of their platforming space me too so thank you all for watching as well so many people T in this amazing like I this isa cool Community like I am not familiar with you all but like I said I'm going to follow in the future so you might see me in the chat on future streams awesome really appreciate it thanks again for stopping by