---
section: apps
metadataEnrichedAt: null
tags:
- Outils
imageNameKey: null
u_site: null
title: De Fauché À Riche En 30 Jours La Méthode Choc Pour Gagner De L'Argent En Ligne
author: Diane
description: 'Découvre De Fauché À Riche En 30 Jours La Méthode Choc Pour Gagner De
  L''Argent En Ligne : outil français pour entrepreneurs, fonctionnalités et avis.'
pubDate: '2024-03-25'
imgUrl: ../../../../assets/astro.jpeg
---

Hey Diane, it’s been a crazy busy week.   I was having a conversation with someone the other day on facebook and they asked me how do I dominate everything I do.   They said everything I do I make it look so easy.   Looking from the outside in I can see how it looks that way so I wanted to write to you today to share with you how I went from being a broke loser to dominating everything I do.   When I say broke loser I mean that.    That is how I viewed myself back then.    My self esteem was low and I felt like there was nothing to look forward to in my life.   People look at me now and see me making $200,000 a month, but they didn’t see the old version of Zach.   When I started I was $50,000 in debt from a drunk driver hitting me and I felt like my life was pretty much over because I was living to pay off debt.   I know, I know…   I have the typical from broke to rich story most internet marketers usually have, but the difference is mine is 100% true.   Back in 2006 I was hit by a drunk driver and it left me in major debt.I felt hopeless and did what any person who thinks life isn’t fair does and I abused drugs and alcohol to cover up the pain.   That led to obsessing over the thought of suicide and taking the easy way out. Thankfully, I went down the rabbit hole of trying to learn how to make money online and it gave me hope that I might be able to turn my life around.  In 2012 I got tired of the creditors calling and threatening me daily to garnish my [wages.So](http://wages.So) I quit my job on a gamble and moved to the Philippines hoping I could make this online business thing work.   And if you’re wondering what made me think going to a country I’ve never been to was the answer…   I was following an internet marketer at the time that talked about how cheap it was to live there so you could just focus on building your business.   I’m a bit crazy and I felt like this was my only option because I was about to be sued for all the debt anyways.   To make a long story short it's all worked out, but it wasn’t all sunshine and rainbows because I literally started from the bottom.   I made a ton of mistakes and I cost myself a lot of time and money because I was desperate to make money.   The reason I’m telling you this little mini story is because I don’t want you to get it twisted and think I just got lucky, had rich parents to help me or some unfair advantage.   So now that we got all of that out of the way and you realize I'm just a normal person just like YOU we can now talk about how to change your life just like I did.   I want to share with you some of the biggest lessons that impacted my life because I know that if you apply them it’s going to be massively beneficial to you.   **The first step is to have a massive vision for your success.**   The biggest mistake I made when I started my business was the lack of clarity.

- I didn't know how I wanted to make money so any method would do.

I didn't have a real income goal, I just wanted to make money.

- I didn't have a clear direction or goal I was working on daily.
- I didn't focus on mastering any high income skills that would give me the ability to make the money I desired.   So what happened is I flip flopped from one program to another program every 30 days.   Basically I was running around blind with no rhyme or reason.   So if you're going through this yourself, trust me I've been there.   So eventually after hitting enough failures and really getting tired of struggling and watching my income go up and down over and over I decided to formulate a plan.   If you haven't made a plan yet this is your problem.   **Let me guess what you're doing?**
- You watch all the big players and idolize them.
- You're confused which direction to go because everyone does something different.
- You buy product after product hoping the next one will be the key.
- You're starting to get pissed off and frustrated and not sure where to start.   Yea, I've been there to and that's why it's time for you to do what I'm about to share with you.   What made all the difference in the world is when I sat down and started making a real plan of what I wanted to achieve.   **So here's what you need to do:**   **1.)** **Define how much money you want to make monthly.**   Don't set a small goal like $5000 and say to yourself… “If I could just make $5k I will be happy”. You're only selling yourself short.   If $20,000 is your real goal then make it $20,000.    I suggest you scare yourself a little bit and set a BIG goal.   For me I wanted to make $10,000 a month.    Once I made $10,000 a month then it was $30,000 a month.Then from there it was $100k month.Now my goal is $500k month.   Do you notice how I’m stretching my goal bigger and bigger each time?If you set a small goal you will not be excited to work hard to obtain [it.It](http://it.It)’s not very exciting just to pay the bills and have no money in the bank account left over right?Trust me on this…    Set big goals because it will drive you to get out of the bed in the morning excited to work hard to accomplish them.   **2.)** **Define a time frame of when you will accomplish your goal.**   I don't know any successful person who doesn't put a timeline on their goals.    If you don't have a time frame of when you will achieve this goal you will find plenty of ways to procrastinate and never do the work.   A goal without a deadline is simply a wish.   **3.)** **Pick one good program or business opportunity to get you there.**   I’m a bit biased, but I believe my program is the solution to your problems.    I believe nothing out there even comes close to it and it's newbie friendly.   As you can see here every single week we have new members hitting my “10k Club”.   If you need to build a business that can make you $10k to $20k per month and beyond we can help you. If you would like help just [**go here to book a call**.](https://clicks.aweber.com/y/ct/?l=MNokd&m=99Zv16m8xw5iIKLo&b=CbKmmaQIfL9RHiVFjmMQGw)   Regardless of whatever you do, don't pick five business opportunities.   Here is your answer to getting to six-figures and beyond in 2022…   Pick one business, one mentor to teach you, pick one product to sell, one platform to build your audience and do that for one year.    Focus 110% of your energy on that business and nothing else.   This is where 99% of people go wrong and they follow people's advice of trying to make multiple streams of income.   You will not make multiple streams of income if you can’t make one source do six-figures I can guarantee that.   **4.) Learn to master one traffic source.**   If you want to make this business successful you need to get good at traffic generation.   It doesn’t matter if you have the world’s best product.   If you can’t get people to see it then you will not make any sales.   Focus all your energy on just getting good at one platform.   You can make 1 million a year from one platform. So you don’t need multiple platforms.Learn to master the traffic source and push those people onto an email list.The goal is to use social media platforms to build your audience and then get them onto an email list so you can continuously follow up with them, build a relationship with them and also make them an offer.   Every email I send is worth between $5000 - $25,000.   If you’re not building an email list right now it should be your #1 priority.    It’s the real key to making consistent income.   There is a reason all 7 and 8-figure earners build an email list and don’t just use social media for their business.   **5.)** **Once you start to build your audience, focus on helping them.**   Share helpful tips, share what you're doing to build your business and guide them to the solution that will solve their problem. (Your product)What you need to understand is you don’t need to be an expert.   You just need to know a little bit more than the person you’re helping to make a lot of money online.   Now the most important thing to understand to make this profitable…   The people putting their email in your squeeze page are more than just an email.   They're real people, they have feelings, they have needs and they're looking for  your help.   So don't treat them like a number.   That's why for years I’ve only promoted the best products I personally use and I Never promote anything that won't help my subscribers.   Integrity goes a long way in this business, most marketers have none.   When you treat people with respect and do your best to help them they will follow you for years.   I have customers who have spent over $100,000 with me over the years and they started following me when I was a nobody just learning this business.   **6.) Find a mentor.**   The key to my success is constantly seeking out higher level mentors.    This can be joining masterminds, investing in coaching or investing in their products.   I'm not afraid to spend money to make money.    This business is like college and if you want to get ahead, you have to be willing to invest in your education.   Just in the last 4 months I’ve invested over $140,000 into two different mentors.   It’s already made me back over $500,000 and will make me multiple millions this year alone.   Now I know right now you’re probably thinking “Zach, I don’t have this kind of money to invest” I get it.I did not invest this kind of money in the [start.My](http://start.My) first mentor was around $7,000 and I had to save up every bit of money I could to work with him.That investment allowed me to go from struggling to hitting my first $500k year.Think of it like college.You don’t get to be a lawyer for free.    You have to invest in yourself to learn the knowledge and skills before you get to make the big bucks.With this business the difference is that you don’t have to invest nearly the amount you do to go to college and you can make millions of dollars over the course of a few years with the knowledge you learn.  **7.)** **Reinvest your profits.**   If you want to get ahead you can't treat your business like a job, you must treat it like a real business.   When people make money at a job they blow it on things they don’t need and because of that they always live paycheck to paycheck most of their lives.   Reinvest your profits back into your business to grow fast.   You have to ditch the employee mindset of saving money.    Money is a tool and when you reinvest it in your business your money will make you more money.   This is how marketers go from nobodies to guru level real quick.   **8.)** **Work on your mind daily.**   I saved the best for last.    You may think this is a load of BS, but until you get your mind right and start feeding your mind with positive fuel you will remain broke.   Listen to daily audios from successful people, listen to motivational audios like Tony Robbins, read marketing books and constantly feed your brain with positive information.   Control the information you allow into your brain.   I don’t watch any TV shows or read anything with negative propaganda.   I don’t have negative friends and will not listen to anyone's drama.When you consume these things it makes you doubt yourself and feel like it’s impossible to achieve your dreams.   I want you to realize right here and now that anyone can be successful in this business including YOU.   My life went from being miserable, wanting to kill myself to now $5k + days don't even get me excited anymore.   Your life can truly change when you decide to make that decision.   You can take the information I just gave you and do nothing with it or you can apply it and I promise it will change your life for good.   **-Zach Crawford, Berta Raves & Jordi Simon**